Not really in order of importance, just a bunch of loose thoughts now with holes any lawyer, scientist or whatever can poke in it, just need to start somewhere… Notes… The time horizon here is millennia ahead of today, but what a man can think today is not different from what a man can think two millennia from now, except we’ll get “math processors” in our brains and augmented reality seamlessly translating all known human, and to some degree likely even animal, languages, etc.

I’m just saying this is “infinite” in time horizon – or at least meant to be. Naturally, this will be colored by my time and the impact my surroundings have had on me and my views (just see my old style of writing in your eyes), but I try to place myself above “our time” and to be “timeless”. I don’t believe time is really anything we can describe or measure yet. Currently we depend on the pseudorandom decay of cesium atoms in atomic clocks to measure time in “our most precise way”. This is just a “nice coincidence”, nothing with real meaning.

You can think of the universe / existence as a reality. I recently had thoughts about our mental realities being completely separate. Since vastly most of atoms are empty space, on a higher level nothing ever really touches, and perhaps this is similar with our perceptions of our realities. We never really “touch”, we just “push” each other and impact in different ways.

That said, my references to space and time are obsolete in the future and replaced by deeper systems. I always felt like something was so right, yet so wrong, with 3D + time ever since I read Einstein’s general theory of relativity from 1905 as a child in elementary school – and it made as much sense to my young mind as breathing.

Spacetime is too simple, although brilliant for its time. In a way it’s “better than Newton, but …”. Newton was always bothered by those discrepancies that Einstein solved in the planetary orbits. Einstein improved upon the king himself, Newton, and reinvented our perception of reality. I need help, especially with math, to improve our description of reality further from Einstein, but these are some of my current thoughts. Quantum fluctuations bother me. Dark matter bothers me. It just doesn’t work out properly.

I see a deeper system, not unique or brilliant, but it’s been with me for decades, so I’m starting to put it into words. Someone once said to me “I never met anyone who thought dimensions need reviewing”, but I do. There are more of them. The way we see things, there are “more dimensions”, but I think even my 11-or-whatever-dimensional inner vision is also just an approximation, like Newton and then Einstein produced – and then whoever solves the next level. We will never reach the goal. If we did, we would all be what people refer to as “God”. Then again, I think we all are. God, the universe, particles/waves/mass (given current physical terms), consciousness, trees, stars, animals, cosmic dust; it’s all the same and interact in the same way – on a deeper (or “the deepest” and perhaps even only) level. The remaining levels we peek at through our senses and technological advancements are vastly superficial, but let’s keep digging, I’m bored.

For us it’s just “levels”. An example (with little significance) is eating dinner in a restaurant with other humans, talking between each other, to the employees at the restaurant, etc. This is different from putting out food for a cat and eating yourself next to it while it eats from its bowl. These are two simple, different levels of what we call consciousness interacting. How this relates to dimensions might seem obscure, but I think it does partly, in showing that “things are the same” – even at such an abstracted/high level.

There ought to be only one “smallest particle” the universe is built up of, and I have mentally played with many dimensions interacting and “unfolding”, in a way we see as spacetime, but really, since we simply cannot even explain our own existence, it seems obvious that the smallest building block, or even concept, is hidden for us eternally, or at least until what we see as death. I would love to be wrong on this one.

I want us to impact each other in a close-to-optimal way, for as many as possible.

Another radical view I have is that there is no real “100 %” except for in confined, limited subsystems. In the “real universe”, you will never, ever find “100 %”, it will always be blocked by infinity, zero or a deviation. If you have two apples and eat those two apples, you can say “I ate 100 % of the apples I had”. What you cannot say is that you did anything absolute to the universe. Not sure currently how to word this. When you raise your arm above your head, your molecules to an infinitely small degree interact with galaxies thousands of light years away. We have no way to measure this now and likely never will, but we will get precision we could only dream of in 2018 AD on Earth (Gregorian calendar based on the assumed birth year of the genius and spiritual guide Jesus Christ).


A thought experiment I recently talked out in front of my dad was thinking of 3D+time not as spacetime, or rather not thinking of reality as spacetime, but an image and an energy flow that you can manipulate by what we refer to as “thinking” (digression: “I think, therefore I am” – René Descartes – this is truly the only knowledge that is absolute to us in the capacity of being humans). Thinking allows you to shape the image you “see” and other sensory input – “the feeling of ‘being you’” (wind direction outside would cause different parts of the “body”, as it is presented to us through our sensory systems, to be affected, sounds come from different directions, etc. etc. etc. – all our senses all over what we’re confined to in the representations of “human bodies”).

In this reality perception there are no physical space eyes pointing at something a certain distance away, it is merely energy patterns unfolding and interacting, and the eyes and body is just an “image” and other sensory input linked to your brain/soul (for blind/deaf/other, reality is different in ways some of us can’t imagine, I am very unsure of the implications – or even research potential – here, but they should be huge), the reality we see as spacetime is abstracted from a more “pure” core that I somehow am crazy enough to imagine sometimes… Our image of “ourselves” is largely projected from memories of mirrors and photographs, and other sensory input from memory, for most of us, combined with all our thoughts about our own inner workings.

Imagine standing, turning 180 degrees and then seeing a completely different reality/image. You didn’t move far in 4D, but the image is (possibly) completely changed (you could be standing inside a white box or something). The energy stream your thoughts manipulated and changed the image. Try to think of raising your arm not as moving it in 3D over a short period of time, a second or so, but as “thinking an image different”. I’m in an early stage of this thought experiment. Just putting it down in a few words. This goes very against how we are born to see ourselves, at least in my case.

To feel the force that is gravity, you need merely extend your arm and feel the strain it induces on your muscles, producing a feeling of “spending energy” (literally). You’re fighting gravity in that case. But likely not in a spacetime reality as we use today.


By the way, weather forecasts … I have to admit I am unsure if they will ever be great long-term (as we currently use time in day to day life). This remark is made with determinism and (vs.?) chaos theory in mind.


Another thought experiment I had was that the universe is created and destructed more times than we can imagine at any given “moment” (maybe some guy will be sitting calculating the rate and remembering these words, hehe). I stole a concept from programming called recursion and the unfolding we’re “locked” in, our realities here on Earth, is a constant tear-down and build-up of a brand new you, others, planets, stars and everything else, done recursively – according to an unknown pattern we have to guess sort of like Samba development in the old days (many won’t get that programming reference; keywords: Linux, Samba, “French waiter”). This is a bit on the wild side, but stuff keeps popping into my head.



The geometrical shape that best describes the universe is not regular. It’s what we would call “something round”. My native language, Norwegian, has a word for it: “runding”. Basically “something round”. I do not see a perfect circle, I think that would be like chasing Kepler’s epicircles for planetary orbits. If you want 3D, just make that round thing an even rounder 3D blob that’s very … round and irregular, sort of like parts of some mountains. An interesting future thought experiment is forcing a circle or sphere in a model of the universe and have adaptive inner patterns, just to see what emerges. Also try other shapes? Shrug.

I cannot give credit for this entry, since the original idea came from someone unknown. I agree with him that the currency of the (now quite distant) future will be creativity/imagination. My aforementioned childhood hero Einstein once said “Knowledge is nothing compared to imagination” – or something in that general direction – and I think the future societal structures will systemize this.


 
1.	Combine concerns about societal decisions in response to economical/equivalent development, forces of nature and intelligently formed action (currently human action such as terror and war) with the impact it has emotionally and socially on the population when implementing the measures that are decided upon. Limiting the stress on the population should be highly prioritized while still achieving the goals you need, such as building protection against floods and including, but not limited to, things of that nature.
2.	Make life for the population as pleasant as possible while still stimulating the natural things in the denizens that need stimuli. Intelligent thought is rewarding for many, exercise is rewarding for many, most people need to be challenged to some degree. How much will vary. These are examples among countless. The need for stimuli will differ from person to person, but there will be many commonalities. Grouping is natural, but should rarely be absolute. Always account for exceptions where such may occur, and this includes virtually anything.
3.	Exception handling is crucial. Some people fit in a category, but also fit in one or more other categories. There must be trained and intelligent specialists handling special cases. This applies universally across all segments of society, perhaps with a special emphasis on law enforcement and mental and physical health care.
4.	Assuming an abundance of energy, food and resources available (can we just hand out the 0.1 %’ers money to the world, please? I’m doing my 1 % part as best I can) - distribute based on need and desire. This is perhaps the hardest part to formalize broadly enough. Who defines the needs and desires, beyond the individuals themselves, given that someone has to perform the distribution. Make standard intervals/rations/doses, but account for exceptions also here (see point 3).
5.	Try to predict what will happen, and inform and warn. Neuroscience has proven that predictable pain and stress is less bad on the individual than unexpected events of a detrimental nature. Time horizon here may be a factor. Knowing “too long” (undefined, unknown and even variable) in advance may be bad. Compare to the knowledge humans currently have that our lifespan is limited and the impact this has (however both bad and good).
6.	Explain and inform specimens of the race (people) who are subjected to treatment/anything of why, how and what will happen to a high degree, based also on the individual's desire for this information. See also point 3 about exception handling, but this is likely nearly universal for homo sapiens sapiens.
7.	War is unnecessary and detrimental and should simply be removed from existence. Maintaining a minor, obscure division that deals with (potentially “external”) threats of a generic nature may still be applicable.
8.	Everything is connected.
9.	Jealousy and envy are problems that need solutions. Mental training from a young age may prove effective.
10.	Form laws with care both in the practical and loving/compassionate sense.
11.	Direct creative energy in the population in “healthy” directions. I leave this vague, but an important concept is that it should preferably improve conditions for other specimens, or simply entertain them, for instance.
12.	Personal liberties and freedom of choice are vital and (nearly) undeniable rights for specimens. In accordance with law / similar regulation. Liberal!
13.	Radical incoming: A certain degree of crime in society is not only to be expected, but actually desirable, because laws simply cannot remain perfect over time, unless a certain “perfection or equilibrium” is reached in this regard in some distant future, which I cannot entirely rule out. For the vastly foreseeable future, crime at a certain percentage (low) is desirable, to maintain momentum in political opinion and socially driving forces and opinions in society.
14.	Youth is a disease cured by age.
15.	Children are born evil.
16.	We should stop having children and let humanity end. Might not have to even try; fertility rates are dropping. Small changes lead to extinction long-term, so there’s some hope.
17.	
