Svendsen Smart Home System
 
Copyright © Joakim Borger Svendsen. 2018-09-05. All rights reserved.

Electronic windows (and doors/hatches/other?) that can be opened with an app and/or voice control.

Smart dog/cat door that recognizes a face/animal/eyes similarly to how iPhone X does its facial recognition. Must work in the dark.

Metal and plastic only, not wood, for standing weather.

Lifetime should be up to 30 years, "almost guaranteed".

Movement of the window/door/other should be sturdy, steady and "pleasant" - not twitchy and jerky.

Very low noise is required.

Physical kill switch for opening/closing for each window/unit.

Physical kill switch for the entire house one or more places, typically at the front door / exit, with a visual, permanent warning about open windows and doors. A choice to close everything from there as well as in the app, and a warning if you leave the house. Optionally also on the phone as you leave based on location/GPS/wireless loss, etc. Success and failure of closing everything or optional elements will be reported and visual status is always reported easily viewable, to the extent possible given size of domicile and/or number of units controlled by the Svendsen Smart Home app ( :P ).

Maybe show text messages, chat, email, weather forecast, phone notifications set in the app, etc. in an area of the windows using smart liquid crystals or something of the sort, if feasible. A small touch screen area on the window? Movable area(s) in a later version?

Farther into the future maybe a fully artificial window of transparent liquid crystal or something that emulates the light outside as perfectly as possible to look exactly as it would as if it was an actual window, but artificially, so you can also watch TV/whatever on the window (woo!) - and of course turn a rainy day into a sunny day - or vice versa.

Voice control is a must. Apple HomeKit and Google/Android and potentially other integrations. Form a standard? Get the main players supported (Android/iOS/Windows (Cortana)…?).

By default, windows will automatically close if rain is detected by sensors. Combine both visual and water detection sensors? Humidity? Hail? Snow? Must be able to set exceptions. Close to a certain angle only if snow is detected, other if rain? Heavy rain vs. light rain (estimate as best as sensors allow)?

Have windows and/or doors (specific or all) close when temperature reaches a certain level. Conditionally open windows if temperature outside is lower than inside, combined with inside temperature going above a threshold value, etc.

Custom automation routines with a high degree of IFTTT support (If this, then that).

Presets for things like “let air in” (create a draft) that can be customized and activated by voice. “Hey, <triggerword>, <home name> <custom routine name>” e.g.: “Hey, Siri, Svendsen home let air in”.

Avoid batteries when possible. When needed, battery lifetime should be ridiculously long and the battery type should be commonly and easily available, and the units will always ship with batteries included.

Make it pretty!

Make it almost maintenance free.

Seamless manual override/intervention. Meaning if a window is opening and you want it to go faster to the angle you set it to and just push it with your hands. Beyond the angle with manual intervention, it will go up to the set X %, but if you push farther, not go back to the X %. Hm. Yeah. And it should not hurt engines at all. Seamless and not physically hard to do. Pleasant and convenient should be the experience.

Make the windows and doors standard sizes in various regions, to be mounted on existing houses/homes.

If something blocks the door/window, stop and possibly notify/warn with voice and/or phone notification. Maybe ask for “push a little harder?” and have three levels, such as “gently”, “firmly” and “hard”. Maybe it will work around mechanical issues sometimes to use the “hard” push/force option.

Temperature regulating system to go along, possibly working with outside/inside temperature as I talked about, but also capable of heating with heat pumps or similar in the same series. Maybe many smaller heat pumps or heating devices, electrical cord-powered. Air conditioners also.


